Computer Glossary

Applet:
A small Java application that is downloaded by an ActiveX or Java-enabled web
browser. Wnce it has been downloaded, the applet will run on the user's
computer. Common applets include financial calculators and web draawing
programs.

Application:
Computer software that prforms a task or set of tasks, such as word
processing or drawing. Applications are also referred to as programs.

ASCII:
American Standard Code for Information Interchange, an encoding system for
converting keyboard characters and instructions into the binary number code
that the computer understands.

Bandwith:
The capacity of a networked connection. Bandwidth determines how much data
can be sent along the networked wires. Bandwidth is particularly important for
Internet connections, since grater bandwidth also means faster downloads.

Binary code:
The most basic language a computer understands, it is composed of a series of 
0s an 1s. The computer interprets the code to form numbers, letters, 
puctuation marks, and symbols.

Bit:
The smallest piece of computer information, either the number 0 or 1. In short
they are called binary digits.

Boot:
To atart up a computer. Cold boot means restarting computer after the power is
turned off. Warm boot means restarting computer without turning off the power.

Browser:
Software used to navigate the Internet. Google Chrome, Firefox, Netscape Navigator and Microsoft Internet Explorer are today's most popular browsers for accessing the World Wide Web.

Bug:
A malfuncion due to an errir in the program or a defect in the equipment.

Byte:
Most computers use combinations of eight bits, called bytes, to represent one
character of data or instructions. For example, the word cat has three 
characters, and it would be represented by three bytes.

Cache:
A small data-memory storage area that a computer can use to instantly
re-access data instead of re-reading the data from the original source, such as a hard drive. Browsers use a cache to store web pages so that the user may 
view them again without reconnecting to the Web.

CAD-CAM:
Computer Aided Drawing - Computer Aided Manufacturing.  
The instructions stored in a computer that will be translated to very precise 
operating instructions to a robot, such as for assembling cars or laser-cutting signage.

CD-ROM:
Compact Disc Read-Only Memory, an optically read disc designed to hold
information such as music, reference materials, or computer software. A single CD-ROM can hold around 640 megabytes of data, enough for several
encyclopaedias. Most software programs are now delivered on CD-ROMs.

CGI:
Common Gateway Interface, a programming standard that allows visitors to
fill out form fields on a web page and have that information interact with a 
database, possibly coming back to the user as another Web page. CGI may also
refer to Computer-Generated Imaging, the process in which sophisticated
computer programs create still and animated graphics, such as special effects for movies.

Chip:
A tiny wafer of silicon containing miniature electric circuits that can stre
milions of bits of information.

Client:
A single user of a netwrk application that is operated from a server. A
client/server architecture allows many people to use the same data
simultaneously. The program's main component (the data) resides on a 
centralized server, with smaller components (user interface) on each client.

Cookie:
A text file sent by a Web server that is stored on the hard drive of a computer and relays back to the Web server things about the user, his or her computer, and/or his or her computer activities.

CPU:
A moving position-indicator displaye